# Basketball Team Balancing System

## About
- This project was crafted to meet a specific requirement identified by a basketball club. Due to the time constraints on their borrowed court, the club sought to maximise their court time efficiently. They noted that a considerable amount of time was being dedicated to team selection and determining the initial players. Additionally, there was a time-consuming process of blending the victorious team with the standby team, all in an effort to diminish the likelihood of a single team consistently clinching victories.

- To address these challenges, the solution devised was to arrange all players in a queue randomly generated by an impartial algorithm. The team positions are then occupied by selecting players in the order of their appearance in the queue. To further mitigate the chances of one team dominating all matches, an algorithm was developed to balance teams based on the average skills of each player. This involved calculating the total skill points for each team by summing the individual skill levels of its players. An algorithm was then implemented to minimise the skill difference between teams by swapping players, with the goal of achieving the smallest possible difference. Consequently, it is unlikely for the same team to partake in multiple consecutive matches or consistently emerge victorious, as every match becomes highly balanced.

## Technologies
The project was developed using the following technologies:

- Blazor WebAssembly - A web framework for creating interactive user interfaces using C# and WebAssembly.
- Bootstrap - A CSS framework for creating responsive and custom layouts.

### Installation
To run the project locally, you need to have the following installed on your machine:

- .NET 6.0 SDK - The .NET software development kit, which includes the runtime, tools, and necessary libraries.
- Python 3 - An interpreted, high-level, general-purpose programming language that will be used to start a static web server.

After installing the requirements, you can clone the project repository using the command:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/mdelmondes/BasketMatchManager.git
```

Then, you can publish the project using Visual Studio or the command:

```bash
dotnet publish -c Release
```

This will generate a `publish` folder with the project's static files in the `wwwroot` folder.

### Execution
To run the project, you need to start a static web server in the `wwwroot` folder. You can do this using the command:
#### Python
```bash
python -m http.server --directory {path}\wwwroot
```

Where `{path}` is the path to the folder containing the static files. For example, if the folder is in `C:\Projects\WASM`, you can use:

```bash
python -m http.server --directory C:\Projects\WASM
```

This will start a server on the default port 8000, and you can access the project in the browser using the address http://localhost:8000. You can change the port using an additional argument, for example:

```bash
python -m http.server 5000 --directory C:\Projects\WASM
```

This will start the server on port 5000, and you can access the project at the address http://localhost:5000.

#### Dotnet
```bash
dotnet tool install --global dotnet-serve
```

This will install dotnet server toolkit

```bash
dotnet serve --directory {path}\wwwroot
```

Where `{path}` is the path to the folder containing the static files. For example, if the folder is in `C:\Projects\WASM`, you can use:

```bash
dotnet serve --directory C:\Projects\WASM
```

This will start a server on the default port 52328 (on PowerShell the Listenning Port will be shown after executes the command), and you can access the project in the browser using the address http://localhost:{port}. You can change the port using an additional argument, for example:

```bash
dotnet serve --directory C:\Projects\WASM --port 5000
```

This will start the server on port 5000, and you can access the project at the address http://localhost:5000.

### Tests
To run the project tests, you can use Visual Studio or the command:

```bash
dotnet test
```

This will run the unit and integration tests of the project using the xUnit framework.

To check the code quality, you can use the command:

```bash
dotnet format
```

This will format the code according to the conventions of the EditorConfig.

### Contribution
If you want to contribute to the project, whether by fixing bugs, adding new features, or providing suggestions, you can:

- Open an issue on GitHub, explaining the problem or proposal.
- Fork the repository, make the necessary changes, and submit a pull request to the main branch.

### Authors
The project was developed by:

- **Matheus Delmondes** - Developer and project ideator.

## License
The project is under the MIT license, which allows the use, copying, modification, and distribution of the code, provided that copyrights and permissions are maintained.
